A woman’s breasts are made up of
glands, fat, and fibrous tissue.
For reasons that are not entirely clear,
the breast tissue in many women
develops a dense, irregular,
and bumpy consistency
known as fibrocystic disease.
This noncancerous condition can affect
one breast more than the other.
The changes may become more
or less obvious over the monthly
menstrual cycle as the amount of
fluid in the breast fluctuates with
changing hormone levels.
A cancerous tumor can also
cause changes in the size or shape
of the breast,
or cause the skin to dimple
or look like an orange peel.
Any changes in the appearance of the breast
should be checked by a health care practitioner.